Issuing the commands "./configure", then "make", then "make install" will
(respectively) configure, compile and install the oidentd daemon and its
manual page.  By default, the daemon is installed in /usr/local/sbin/oidentd,
and the uncompressed manual page is installed in /usr/local/man/man8.

IPv6 and IP masquerade support are enabled by default on platforms that support
them.  To disable IPv6 support, pass the --disable-ipv6 option to the configure
script.  To disable IP masquerade support, pass the --disable-masq option to
the configure script.

If you're having problems with oidentd, additional debugging information is
available when the --enable-debug option is passed to the configure script and
oidentd is run with the --debug flag.

oidentd version 2 runs only as a standalone daemon.  Therefore, any entries for
ident in any inetd or xinetd (or any other "super server") configuration
files must be disabled before running oidentd.  This is the case for
performance reasons; when oidentd starts up, it parses the /etc/oidentd.conf
configuration file.  If oidentd ran from inetd (or similar), for every
incoming connection, it would have to parse the configuration file.  Running
standalone lets oidentd parse the file once at startup and after that, only
when it receives a SIGHUP.

Users running inetd can locate such lines by running the command
"egrep ^(auth|ident) /etc/inetd.conf".  Lines that show up must be
commented out by inserting a '#' character at the start of the line.
After the line is disabled the inetd program must be restarted by sending
it the SIGHUP signal (signal 1).

oidentd does not ordinarily require superuser privileges and should not
run as root, if possible.  Do note, however, that oidentd must start up
as root so that it can bind port 113 (if no --port argument is given)
and so that it can open /dev/kmem on operating system that require that.
Once oidentd does this, it can drop any extra privileges.
oidentd does require running as root on FreeBSD 4.x, however, when IP
masquerade support is disabled or when IPv6 support is enabled.

oidentd also must be run as root on OpenBSD 3.0 and greater, as it uses
a privileged ioctl to lookup connection owners and NAT information.

For information regarding setting the user and group that oidentd will run as,
please see the descriptions of the "--user" and "--group" command-line
flags in the oidentd manual page.
